Hi everybody and welcome back.
Now so far we've been working with only one piece of information at a time.
We received the user's input and then printed in part or response to it.
But to keep track of many users and piece and pieces of information we need to use lists and dictionaries
which are while loops a for loop is very effective for looping through a list.
But you shouldn't modify a list inside a for loop because Python will lose track of what you are doing
and the items were in the list to modify a list as you work through it.
Use a while loop.
So we've mentioned before email subscription software and let's revisit that example now.
Consider this scenario a user subscribes to our newsletter and we send them a verification email to
verify the email address.
After these users verify themselves how can we move them from our list of verified users to verified
users.
One way will be to use a while loop to take users from the unverified list as we verify them and then
add them to a list of verified users.
So let's take a look at how that program would look.
Now we start off the list of unverified users.
So let's add in our comments.
OK so I just paused and added in some comments so you can see them there at the top.
So as I said We start off with a list of unverified users.
So let's add a comment to say that's what we're doing.
Create a list of on verified users.
OK.
So unconfirmed users equals.
OK so let's go back to our reliable Tony.
Frank don't forget your single quotes.
Very easy to forget even you're trying to go move to something promptly.
Mary.
OK.
So a list of people who are subscribed to our newsletter but have not yet confirmed that they actually
want it.
Now another one an empty list to hold confirmed users.
OK.
Perfect.
Let's create that list now confirmed users equals an empty list.
There we go.
Now we're going to create a while loop which runs as long as the list of unconfirmed users is not empty.
So while unconfirmed
current user
equals
unconfirmed user
that pop.
Now you might remember the pop method from an earlier lecture.
And what that's going to do is it's going to take a user from unconfirmed users list and pop it into
the variable current user.
So when that's done print verifying
user space plus current user data titles we want to capitalize their name
and then we say confirmed users know we're accessing our confirmed users list that append.
So add to that list current user.
So all very straightforward.
And now to print out our users we are just out in a statement display all confirmed users.
OK.
And in that we place print and paste this on a new line
backslash and the following users have been confirmed
today.
We're going to do is going to look for confirmed use or in confirmed users
present
confirmed user data title.
OK.
So let's run this program and see what we get.
Well an error pand and I've misspelt a Pand.
OK.
Remove the A and let's run it again.
Verifying user Mary verifying user Frank verifying user Tony to follow users have been confirmed.
OK so there's an interesting error.
The following years have been confirmed but didn't matter type of string object.
OK so let's see what that error is.
Here we go.
The title isn't working correctly so let's just add in our brackets which I forgot.
Run it again.
And there we go.
Perfect.
So let's just have a look at our program.
So first we create a list of unconfirmed users.
So again imagine our software scenario our e-mail software scenario and we have Tony Frank Ameri who
clicked yes subscribe to the newsletter but they have not yet confirmed.
So a list of confirmed users is empty.
So while we have unconfirmed users create a variable current user and add to that variable unconfirmed
users that pop out in one unconfirmed user at a time and then print verifying to user plus the current
user.
When that's done go to our confirmed users list which at the moment is empty and append panda in the
current user.
So that seems very simple and very straightforward and it is once you type this out and run it a couple
of times you'll realize how simple it is.
Finally we display all confirmed users and to do that we loop through or confirm use a list and print
out each user in Title Case and you can see the result here.
So in our program because Mary is the last of the unconfirmed users in the list.
So you can see or hear Mary out of her and last her name will be forced be removed and stored in current
user and atatürk confirmed user list.
So indeed you can see or hear and or confirmed views a list Mary.
So I hope you found this letter interesting.
I certainly did as it's more advancement on what we've been building up to so far.
As always if you have any questions please do not hesitate to contact me and I'll see you in the next
lecture.
Thank you.